PYTHON

Python is an object-oriented, high level language, interpreted, dynamic and multipurpose programming language.

Python is easy to learn yet powerful and versatile scripting language which makes it attractive for Application Development.

Python's syntax and dynamic typing with its interpreted nature, make it an ideal language for scripting and rapid application development in many areas.

Python supports multiple programming pattern, including object oriented programming, imperative and functional programming or procedural styles.

Python is not intended to work on special area such as web programming. That is why it is known as multipurpose because it can be used with web, enterprise, 3D CAD etc.

We don't need to use data types to declare variable because it is dynamically typed so we can write a=10 to declare an integer value in a variable.

Python makes the development and debugging fast because there is no compilation step included in python development and edit-test-debug cycle is very fast.

PYTHON FEATURES

There are a lot of features provided by python programming language.
1) Easy to Use:

Python is easy to very easy to use and high level language. Thus it is programmer-friendly language.
2) Expressive Language:

Python language is more expressive. The sense of expressive is the code is easily understandable.
3) Interpreted Language:

Python is an interpreted language i.e. interpreter executes the code line by line at a time. This makes debugging easy and thus suitable for beginners.
4) Cross-platform language:

Python can run equally on different platforms such as Windows, Linux, Unix , Macintosh etc. Thus, Python is a portable language.
5) Free and Open Source:

Python language is freely available(www.python.org).The source-code is also available. Therefore it is open source.
6) Object-Oriented language:

Python supports object oriented language. Concept of classes and objects comes into existence.
7) Extensible:

It implies that other languages such as C/C++ can be used to compile the code and thus it can be used further in your python code.
8) Large Standard Library:

Python has a large and broad library.
9) GUI Programming:

Graphical user interfaces can be developed using Python.
10) Integrated:

It can be easily integrated with languages like C, C++, JAVA etc.
